Let's break down the process of using regular expressions in Python in simpler terms.

1. Import the re module:

This is like telling Python that you want to use a set of tools for working with text patterns.

import re

2. Define a regular expression pattern:

A regular expression is a kind of recipe for matching text. It's like telling Python what kind of text you're looking for. 
For example, if you want to find the word "apple," you can define your recipe like this:

pattern = r"apple"

Here, r"apple" is your recipe, and it means you want to find the word "apple" in a text.

3. Use re.search() for basic matching:

The re.search() function helps you search for your text recipe in a larger piece of text. If it finds a match, it tells you where it found it.

text = "I love apples and oranges."
match = re.search(pattern, text)
if match:
    print("Match found:", match.group())
else:
    print("No match found.")

In this example, it will say "Match found: apple" because it found the word "apple" in the text.

4. Use flags for options:

Sometimes, you want to be more flexible with your recipe. For instance, you might want to find "apple" whether it's written in uppercase or lowercase. 
You can use a special option called a flag, like this:

match = re.search(pattern, text, re.IGNORECASE)

The re.IGNORECASE flag tells Python to be not strict about uppercase and lowercase letters.

5. Use re.findall() for finding all matches:

The re.findall() function finds all the places where your recipe matches in a text.

text = "I love apples and applesauce, but Apple is a company."
matches = re.findall(pattern, text, re.IGNORECASE)
print("All matches:", matches)

This will print all the places where "apple" shows up, even if it's written differently (e.g., "Apple" or "apples").

6. Use other functions and methods:

The re module has more tools for different tasks, like checking if your text starts with your recipe or replacing parts of your text.

7. Regular expression patterns:

Your recipe can be more complex than just simple words. You can use special characters to describe patterns. For example, . means any character, 
* means zero or more repetitions, + means one or more repetitions, and so on. You can use square brackets to specify a set of characters and 
parentheses to group patterns.

That's the basic idea of how to use regular expressions in Python: create a recipe, look for it in text, and do more advanced things if needed.
