Setting the PATH:

The PATH is an environment variable in your operating system that tells it where to look for executable files when you run a command
in the command prompt or terminal. To switch between different versions of Python, you'll need to update your PATH to include the 
directories where the Python executables are located.

Here's how to set the PATH in a simple way:

Find the Python Executable Directory: First, you need to know where the Python executables are located. Python is usually installed 
in a directory like C:\PythonXX on Windows or /usr/bin on Unix-based systems (Linux, macOS).

Open System Properties on Windows:

Right-click on "This PC" or "My Computer" (depending on your Windows version) and select "Properties."
In the System Properties window, click on the "Advanced system settings" on the left.
Open Environment Variables:

In the System Properties window, click the "Environment Variables" button.
In the Environment Variables window, you'll see two sections: User variables (for your user account) and System variables (for all
users). You can choose either, but modifying the System variables affects all users.
Edit the PATH Variable:

In the "System Variables" section, find the "Path" variable and select "Edit."
In the "Edit Environment Variable" window, click "New" and add the path to the directory where the Python executable you want to use
is located. For example, if you want to add Python 3.9, you would add the path to its executable folder.

Click "OK" to save the changes.
Verify the PATH:

Open a new command prompt window and type python --version. It should display the version of Python you added to the PATH.
Switching Between Python Versions:

Now that you've set up the PATH, switching between different Python versions is as simple as changing the order of the directories
in the PATH variable. The system searches for executables in the directories listed in the PATH variable from left to right. The 
first directory containing a matching executable is used.

For example, if you have both Python 3.7 and Python 3.9 installed and you want to use Python 3.7 by default, you can move the path
to the Python 3.7 directory ahead of the Python 3.9 directory in the PATH variable.

If you want to temporarily switch between versions without changing the PATH, you can specify the full path to the Python executable
when running a script. For example:

C:\Python37\python.exe my_script.py

This will run my_script.py using Python 3.7 without permanently changing the PATH.

That's it! You've learned how to set the PATH and switch between different versions/executables of Python. It allows you to work with
different Python versions on your system based on your needs.
